wiki/blockchain-resources.md, before:

---
id: blockchain-learning-resources
title: Blockchain Learning Resources
description: General resources which will help you understand Blockchain- and Distributed Ledger Technologies.
slug: /blockchain-learning-resources
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Blockchain Resources
---

# Blockchain Resources

## Binance Academy

[Binance Academy](https://academy.binance.com) is a great place to educate yourself on various Blockchain and crypto-related technologies. While some of their guides are definitely written for Blockchain beginners, there's a treasure trove of well researched material for the more technical inclined readers.

**Protip**: Use the filters at the top of the [articles view](https://academy.binance.com/en/articles) to find the content you're interested in.

The folks at Binance Academy regularly add new content so it's definitely worthwhile to check back every now and then.

## CoinMarketCap Alexandria

[CoinMarketCap Alexandria](https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/) is another great place to learn about Cryptocurrency and its underlying technologies.

You definitely don't want to miss the [Tech Deep Dives](https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/categories/tech-deep-dives) series.

The team at CoinMarketCap adds new content on a regular basis so be sure to visit their website on a regular basis.

## Gemini Cryptopedia

[Gemini Cryptopedia](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia) aims to be the Wikipedia of Crypto content. It's a great place to learn more about topics such as DeFi, NFTs, Security, Trading & Investing as well as Blockchains, Cryptocurrencies and Protocols in general.

Every article was written and reviewed by [authoritative experts](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/authors) to ensure high quality.

The [Glossary](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/glossary) is another resource you can use to lookup Crypto terms and better understand the industry's lingo.

**Protip**: The [Explore page](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/explore) gives you a structured overview of all the available content you can browse through.

## Kraken Learn

[Kraken Learn](https://www.kraken.com/learn) is an educational effort by the Kraken team to teach everyone about Blockchains and Cryptocurrencies. Their knowledge hub has tons of resources on topics such as Crypto- and Blockchain basics, Crypto Security, DeFi, NFTs and more.

**Protip**: If you're completely new to Crypto you should definitely check out the "[Crypto 101](https://www.kraken.com/learn/videos/crypto-101)" video series taught by Kraken CEO Jesse Powell.

## a16z Crypto Canon

Andreessen Horowitz \(a.k.a "a16z"\) created the [Crypto Canon](https://a16z.com/2018/02/10/crypto-readings-resources/) project which is an exhaustive list of Blockchain and Crypto resources. It's structured in a way of increasing complexity, meaning that the first readings are about Blockchain and Crypto basics whereas the later resources discuss topics such as Decentralized Exchanges, Consensus mechanisms and Governance.

While it was originally published in 2018 it's updated regularly, so you might want to bookmark and revisit it from time to time.

## a16z Crypto Startup School

The venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz \(know as "a16z"\) did a great job putting together a whole curriculum for aspiring Crypto startup founders called [Crypto Startup School](https://a16z.com/crypto-startup-school/).

In it you'll learn everything you need to know to build, launch and grow your project.

In conjunction to that they also published an article called "[The State of Crypto](https://a16z.com/2020/12/28/crypto-users-guide/)" which acts as a kind of TL;DR version of the Crypto Startup School content.

## Whiteboard Crypto

The Whiteboard Crypto [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/WhiteboardCrypto) is a great place for newcomers to learn everything there is to know about the big ideas behind Blockchains and Cryptocurrencies. One of the channel's main focus is to use stories and analogies to explain Crypto concepts in an easy to understand way.

For a more structured overview of all the available videos take a look at the [playlists](https://www.youtube.com/c/WhiteboardCrypto/playlists).

## Encode Club

The [Encode Club](https://www.encode.club) has some great [YouTube videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8MwfizU_2GYh_LugWJom6A) in which various aspects of Blockchain Development and Crypto technologies are explained by industry experts. They consolidate all the resources via different tracks such as "DeFi Club" or "Hack the System". Simply click on the [playlists](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8MwfizU_2GYh_LugWJom6A/playlists) tab to get a sorted overview of their videos.

## Blockchain at Berkeley

Did you every attempt to read a Blockchain or Crypto whitepaper but got stuck halfway through? Are you looking for an easy to digest format for advanced Blockchain and Crypto topics such as "Layer 2 Scaling"? Chances are that the folks at "Blockchain at Berkeley" already covered and discussed this topic on the [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/BlockchainatBerkeley).

## Outlier Ventures

[Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io), a "custom accelerator for Web 3" has a very helpful [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/OutlierVentures) where Web 3 founders present and discuss concepts such as the Metaverse, DeFi or NFTs in great detail. While you're at it you might also want to subscribe to their [Podcast feed](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129) which is updated regularly with enticing interviews about Web 3, Blockchain and Crypto technologies.

## How does a Blockchain actually work?

The video "[But how does bitcoin actually work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bBC-nXj3Ng4)?" by Grant Sanderson \(a.k.a 3Blue1Brown\) is a great visual introduction to Blockchains and their inner workings.

In it, Grant builds up the intuition behind Blockchains by slowly introducing and explaining the individual constituents and the math governing them and the whole system. Once you've watched it you should have a solid understanding how real world projects like Bitcoin, Ethereum or Cosmos work behind the scenes.

## Blockchain Demo

The [Blockchain Demo](https://blockchaindemo.io/) project by Sean Han is an interactive website which teaches you how a Blockchain works in an intuitive, bite-sized fashion.

Working through the tutorial you start with the genesis block to which you slowly add more data and hence blocks to the Blockchain. You'll explore why the chain forms a tamper-proof ledger, how a Peer-to-Peer network is formed to exchange blocks and how consensus is reached within such network based on protocols like Proof-of-Work.

With every step of the way you can look into the code underlying the implementation. The full [source code](https://github.com/seanjameshan/blockchain) can be found at GitHub.

There's also another, interactive [Blockchain tutorial](https://andersbrownworth.com/blockchain/) by Anders Brownworth you might want to look into as well. The implementation of such project is also [available at GitHub](https://github.com/anders94/blockchain-demo).

## Buildspace

[Buildspace](https://buildspace.so) is an effort to teach you fundamental Blockchain- and Web3 concepts through project-based learning.

Once joined you'll have access to courses that'll show you how to build EVM-based dApps with Solidity, generate an NFT art collection or implement a Blockchain game based on L2 networks.

Commit message:

Add Figment Learn to Blockchain Resources page

wiki/blockchain-resources.md, after:

---
id: blockchain-learning-resources
title: Blockchain Learning Resources
description: General resources which will help you understand Blockchain- and Distributed Ledger Technologies.
slug: /blockchain-learning-resources
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Blockchain Resources
---

# Blockchain Resources

## Binance Academy

[Binance Academy](https://academy.binance.com) is a great place to educate yourself on various Blockchain and crypto-related technologies. While some of their guides are definitely written for Blockchain beginners, there's a treasure trove of well researched material for the more technical inclined readers.

**Protip**: Use the filters at the top of the [articles view](https://academy.binance.com/en/articles) to find the content you're interested in.

The folks at Binance Academy regularly add new content so it's definitely worthwhile to check back every now and then.

## CoinMarketCap Alexandria

[CoinMarketCap Alexandria](https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/) is another great place to learn about Cryptocurrency and its underlying technologies.

You definitely don't want to miss the [Tech Deep Dives](https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/categories/tech-deep-dives) series.

The team at CoinMarketCap adds new content on a regular basis so be sure to visit their website on a regular basis.

## Gemini Cryptopedia

[Gemini Cryptopedia](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia) aims to be the Wikipedia of Crypto content. It's a great place to learn more about topics such as DeFi, NFTs, Security, Trading & Investing as well as Blockchains, Cryptocurrencies and Protocols in general.

Every article was written and reviewed by [authoritative experts](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/authors) to ensure high quality.

The [Glossary](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/glossary) is another resource you can use to lookup Crypto terms and better understand the industry's lingo.

**Protip**: The [Explore page](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/explore) gives you a structured overview of all the available content you can browse through.

## Kraken Learn

[Kraken Learn](https://www.kraken.com/learn) is an educational effort by the Kraken team to teach everyone about Blockchains and Cryptocurrencies. Their knowledge hub has tons of resources on topics such as Crypto- and Blockchain basics, Crypto Security, DeFi, NFTs and more.

**Protip**: If you're completely new to Crypto you should definitely check out the "[Crypto 101](https://www.kraken.com/learn/videos/crypto-101)" video series taught by Kraken CEO Jesse Powell.

## a16z Crypto Canon

Andreessen Horowitz \(a.k.a "a16z"\) created the [Crypto Canon](https://a16z.com/2018/02/10/crypto-readings-resources/) project which is an exhaustive list of Blockchain and Crypto resources. It's structured in a way of increasing complexity, meaning that the first readings are about Blockchain and Crypto basics whereas the later resources discuss topics such as Decentralized Exchanges, Consensus mechanisms and Governance.

While it was originally published in 2018 it's updated regularly, so you might want to bookmark and revisit it from time to time.

## a16z Crypto Startup School

The venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz \(know as "a16z"\) did a great job putting together a whole curriculum for aspiring Crypto startup founders called [Crypto Startup School](https://a16z.com/crypto-startup-school/).

In it you'll learn everything you need to know to build, launch and grow your project.

In conjunction to that they also published an article called "[The State of Crypto](https://a16z.com/2020/12/28/crypto-users-guide/)" which acts as a kind of TL;DR version of the Crypto Startup School content.

## Whiteboard Crypto

The Whiteboard Crypto [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/WhiteboardCrypto) is a great place for newcomers to learn everything there is to know about the big ideas behind Blockchains and Cryptocurrencies. One of the channel's main focus is to use stories and analogies to explain Crypto concepts in an easy to understand way.

For a more structured overview of all the available videos take a look at the [playlists](https://www.youtube.com/c/WhiteboardCrypto/playlists).

## Encode Club

The [Encode Club](https://www.encode.club) has some great [YouTube videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8MwfizU_2GYh_LugWJom6A) in which various aspects of Blockchain Development and Crypto technologies are explained by industry experts. They consolidate all the resources via different tracks such as "DeFi Club" or "Hack the System". Simply click on the [playlists](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8MwfizU_2GYh_LugWJom6A/playlists) tab to get a sorted overview of their videos.

## Blockchain at Berkeley

Did you every attempt to read a Blockchain or Crypto whitepaper but got stuck halfway through? Are you looking for an easy to digest format for advanced Blockchain and Crypto topics such as "Layer 2 Scaling"? Chances are that the folks at "Blockchain at Berkeley" already covered and discussed this topic on the [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/BlockchainatBerkeley).

## Outlier Ventures

[Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io), a "custom accelerator for Web 3" has a very helpful [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/OutlierVentures) where Web 3 founders present and discuss concepts such as the Metaverse, DeFi or NFTs in great detail. While you're at it you might also want to subscribe to their [Podcast feed](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129) which is updated regularly with enticing interviews about Web 3, Blockchain and Crypto technologies.

## How does a Blockchain actually work?

The video "[But how does bitcoin actually work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bBC-nXj3Ng4)?" by Grant Sanderson \(a.k.a 3Blue1Brown\) is a great visual introduction to Blockchains and their inner workings.

In it, Grant builds up the intuition behind Blockchains by slowly introducing and explaining the individual constituents and the math governing them and the whole system. Once you've watched it you should have a solid understanding how real world projects like Bitcoin, Ethereum or Cosmos work behind the scenes.

## Blockchain Demo

The [Blockchain Demo](https://blockchaindemo.io/) project by Sean Han is an interactive website which teaches you how a Blockchain works in an intuitive, bite-sized fashion.

Working through the tutorial you start with the genesis block to which you slowly add more data and hence blocks to the Blockchain. You'll explore why the chain forms a tamper-proof ledger, how a Peer-to-Peer network is formed to exchange blocks and how consensus is reached within such network based on protocols like Proof-of-Work.

With every step of the way you can look into the code underlying the implementation. The full [source code](https://github.com/seanjameshan/blockchain) can be found at GitHub.

There's also another, interactive [Blockchain tutorial](https://andersbrownworth.com/blockchain/) by Anders Brownworth you might want to look into as well. The implementation of such project is also [available at GitHub](https://github.com/anders94/blockchain-demo).

## Figment Learn

[Figment Learn](https://learn.figment.io/) is a platform created by developers, for developers to learn about Blockchain and Web3 technologies.

Browsing through it you can find resources to learn about various protocols, courses to study a topic in a guided setting, as well as curated community tutorials to dive deeper and apply what you've learned through example projects.

## Buildspace

[Buildspace](https://buildspace.so) is an effort to teach you fundamental Blockchain- and Web3 concepts through project-based learning.

Once joined you'll have access to courses that'll show you how to build EVM-based dApps with Solidity, generate an NFT art collection or implement a Blockchain game based on L2 networks.
