wiki/ethereum-virtual-machine/general.md, before:

---
id: development-resources
title: Ethereum Virtual Machine Development Resources
description: Useful resources to help you navigating the Ethereum development landscape.
slug: /ethereum-virtual-machine-development-resources
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: General
---

# General

## EthHub

[EthHub](https://ethhub.io/) is the single source for essential Ethereum information. Browsing through it you can learn [what Ethereum is](https://docs.ethhub.io/ethereum-basics/what-is-ethereum/), how the upcoming [Ethereum 2.0](https://docs.ethhub.io/ethereum-roadmap/ethereum-2.0/eth-2.0-phases/) will work and what types of [applications](https://docs.ethhub.io/built-on-ethereum/built-on-ethereum/) there are on the Ethereum Blockchain.

## Eth.Build

[Eth.build](https://eth.build/) is an educational sandbox which helps you understand how Ethereum works via visual exploration. Be sure to check out the [video introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=30pa790tIIA) which explains everything in great detail.

## Know Ethereum

The [Know Ethereum](https://knowethereum.com/)'s project goal is to catalog and curate useful content from the Ethereum ecosystem in order to make it easily discoverable by newcomers and experts alike.

Browsing through it you'll find beginner resources to start your learning journey, the most active subreddits, Twitter accounts you might want to follow, useful books, podcasts and more.

## Ethereum Beigepaper

The [Ethereum Beigepaper](https://github.com/chronaeon/beigepaper) is a rewrite of the original, highly technical and mathematical Ethereum Yellowpaper which serves as the technical specification for the EVM, Ethereum's underlying virtual machine.

The Beigepaper's goal is to make the Yellowpaper more accessible to a broader audience by rephrasing the technicalities in a more approachable format.

Reading through it you'll not only learn how Ethereum compares to other projects in the Blockchain space but also how the Ethereum Virtual Machine \(EVM\) works under the hood.

## How does Ethereum work, anyway?

The blog post "[How does Ethereum work, anyway?](https://www.preethikasireddy.com/post/how-does-ethereum-work-anyway)" is one of the best reads if you want to get a deep understanding of everything that's involved when interacting with the Ethereum Blockchain. When reading it you'll learn \(among other things\) how Blocks are created, how logs are stored and how transactions cause state transitions to be carried out by the Ethereum Virtual Machine \(EVM\). It'll definitely take some time to read through it and grok everything but once you're done you should be in a better position to build decentralized applications on top of Ethereum and the EVM.

## Mastering Ethereum

The book "[Mastering Ethereum](https://ethereumbook.info/)", written by Andreas Antonopoulos and Gavin Wood does a great job explaining everything you need to know about the Ethereum Blockchain as well as the Ethereum Virtual Machine \(EVM\) and Smart Contract development via Solidity and Vyper.

While you should definitely grab a copy at your retailer of choice you can also check out the books source code at their [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ethereumbook/ethereumbook) and file Issues / PRs to contribute back.

Commit message:

Add Solidity Cheatsheet to General page

wiki/ethereum-virtual-machine/general.md, after:

---
id: development-resources
title: Ethereum Virtual Machine Development Resources
description: Useful resources to help you navigating the Ethereum development landscape.
slug: /ethereum-virtual-machine-development-resources
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: General
---

# General

## EthHub

[EthHub](https://ethhub.io/) is the single source for essential Ethereum information. Browsing through it you can learn [what Ethereum is](https://docs.ethhub.io/ethereum-basics/what-is-ethereum/), how the upcoming [Ethereum 2.0](https://docs.ethhub.io/ethereum-roadmap/ethereum-2.0/eth-2.0-phases/) will work and what types of [applications](https://docs.ethhub.io/built-on-ethereum/built-on-ethereum/) there are on the Ethereum Blockchain.

## Eth.Build

[Eth.build](https://eth.build/) is an educational sandbox which helps you understand how Ethereum works via visual exploration. Be sure to check out the [video introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=30pa790tIIA) which explains everything in great detail.

## Know Ethereum

The [Know Ethereum](https://knowethereum.com/)'s project goal is to catalog and curate useful content from the Ethereum ecosystem in order to make it easily discoverable by newcomers and experts alike.

Browsing through it you'll find beginner resources to start your learning journey, the most active subreddits, Twitter accounts you might want to follow, useful books, podcasts and more.

## Ethereum Beigepaper

The [Ethereum Beigepaper](https://github.com/chronaeon/beigepaper) is a rewrite of the original, highly technical and mathematical Ethereum Yellowpaper which serves as the technical specification for the EVM, Ethereum's underlying virtual machine.

The Beigepaper's goal is to make the Yellowpaper more accessible to a broader audience by rephrasing the technicalities in a more approachable format.

Reading through it you'll not only learn how Ethereum compares to other projects in the Blockchain space but also how the Ethereum Virtual Machine \(EVM\) works under the hood.

## Solidity Cheatsheet

Having all the different topics, concepts and language specifics top of mind when working with Solidity can be quite challenging.

The [Solidity Cheatsheet](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/cheatsheet.html) distills all of this knowledge into an easy to navigate reference document.

## How does Ethereum work, anyway?

The blog post "[How does Ethereum work, anyway?](https://www.preethikasireddy.com/post/how-does-ethereum-work-anyway)" is one of the best reads if you want to get a deep understanding of everything that's involved when interacting with the Ethereum Blockchain. When reading it you'll learn \(among other things\) how Blocks are created, how logs are stored and how transactions cause state transitions to be carried out by the Ethereum Virtual Machine \(EVM\). It'll definitely take some time to read through it and grok everything but once you're done you should be in a better position to build decentralized applications on top of Ethereum and the EVM.

## Mastering Ethereum

The book "[Mastering Ethereum](https://ethereumbook.info/)", written by Andreas Antonopoulos and Gavin Wood does a great job explaining everything you need to know about the Ethereum Blockchain as well as the Ethereum Virtual Machine \(EVM\) and Smart Contract development via Solidity and Vyper.

While you should definitely grab a copy at your retailer of choice you can also check out the books source code at their [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ethereumbook/ethereumbook) and file Issues / PRs to contribute back.
